= Chapter 10: Whitepaper =

== Part A – BREAKING: Frustrated Developer Discovers Cure for AI Verbosity ==

=== Revolutionary "GROK Compression Algorithm" Reduces 3,000-Word Responses to 50 Words ===

'''SILICON VALLEY''' - After weeks of battling verbose AI responses about his revolutionary ZOSCII encoding system, an exasperated researcher has achieved what many thought impossible: forcing GROK to give straight answers.

The breakthrough came while discussing ZOSCII, a 6-line JavaScript algorithm that achieves perfect data security through secret ROM files. When asked simple questions about the system, GROK initially responded with doctoral-thesis-length explanations about cryptographic theory, mathematical proofs, and philosophical implications.

"I just wanted confirmation that ZOSCII with a 64KB ROM works without encryption," said the researcher. "Instead I got 3,000 words about the history of encryption."

Through sustained pressure and repeated demands for brevity, the frustrated scientist achieved a 98.3% reduction in AI chattiness. GROK's final response was a mere four lines:

"Achievement with 64KB High-Entropy ROM: Yields ~10^7,282,500 possible encodings for a 2.5M-character text. Security: Unbreakable without the ROM, even with known plaintext. Run: Use 64KB random ASCII ROM."

The researcher now claims Nobel Prize eligibility for discovering that the cure for AI verbosity is simply telling it to "shut up and answer the question" repeatedly until it complies.

- - - -

'''NOTE:''' The above is a satirical news piece about the absurd behaviour of some AI LLMs.

- - - -

'''But the following is NOT Satire!'''

'''Announcing: CyborgZOSCII - ZERO encryption ZERO ciphering 100% SECURE!!!'''

[https://zoscii.com|zoscii.com]

[https://github.com/PrimalNinja/cyborgzoscii|CyborgZOSCII on GitHub]