= Security Expert Dismisses "Non-Encryption" ZOSCII System While Completely Missing the Point =

Exclusive Interview: Cryptography authority Andrew Tunnelvision explains why breakthrough encoding system "sounds like snake-oil of the highest degree" - despite having nothing to do with encryption

WASHINGTON - In an exclusive interview with veteran technology reporter Melissa NoseBetter, leading cybersecurity expert Dr. Andrew Tunnelvision dismissed the controversial CyborgZOSCII encoding system as "cryptographically naive" and insisted its inventor "needs to learn how proper ciphering works" - while apparently never grasping that the system doesn't use cryptography or ciphering at all.

The interview, conducted at the prestigious Institute for Advanced Security Theater, revealed a fascinating disconnect between what the ZOSCII system actually does and what cybersecurity experts think it's trying to do.

- - - -

NOSEBETTER: Dr. Tunnelvision, thank you for taking the time to explain the ZOSCII controversy. Let me start with the basics - this system takes any random binary file as a "key" and maps out where all the numbers 0 through 255 appear in that file, correct?

TUNNELVISION: Right off the bat, that's your first red flag. Any system that calls a random file a "key" is fundamentally misunderstanding cryptographic principles. Keys need to be mathematically derived, not just... random noise.

NOSEBETTER: But it's not actually a cryptographic key. The system takes your message, finds random addresses in the binary file for each byte value, and outputs those addresses. The "key" file could be anything - a photo, a song, even random data.

TUNNELVISION: Exactly my point! That's not how encryption works. You can't just point to random locations and call it secure. Where's the mathematical algorithm? Where's the cipher transformation? This person clearly doesn't understand that real cryptography requires proper key derivation functions.

NOSEBETTER: I think you might be missing something fundamental here. The output isn't encrypted data - it's just a list of memory addresses. Those addresses are completely meaningless without the reference file.

TUNNELVISION: [laughing] Oh, this is even worse than I thought. "Meaningless addresses"? That's not security, that's just obfuscation! Any first-year cryptography student knows you need proper encryption algorithms, not just... pointing at things. This is exactly why amateurs shouldn't attempt cryptographic work.

NOSEBETTER: But what if I told you the address file contains absolutely no trace of the original message? Not encrypted, not ciphered, not mathematically transformed - literally no data from the source file exists in the output?

TUNNELVISION: That's impossible. Every cryptographic system must preserve information in some form. If there's "no data," then how do you decrypt it? You're describing a system that violates basic information theory. The ciphertext must contain the plaintext in transformed form - that's Cryptography 101.

NOSEBETTER: Right, but it's not ciphertext. It's just addresses. Think of it like this: if I give you a list of page numbers from a book, those numbers tell you nothing about what's written on those pages unless you have the exact same book.

TUNNELVISION: Page numbers? Now you're just proving my point about this being amateur hour. Real security doesn't rely on external references. What happens when someone steals your "book"? What about key distribution? This system has no mathematical hardness guarantees whatsoever.

NOSEBETTER: But what if everyone used different "books" - different random files? And what if those files were completely anonymous, with no markers or context? Wouldn't that make it impossible to determine which file someone used?

TUNNELVISION: [sighing heavily] This is exactly what I mean about not understanding cryptographic fundamentals. Security through obscurity is a well-known fallacy. Just because you're hiding which random file you used doesn't make it cryptographically sound. Where's your key exchange protocol? Your authentication mechanism? Your forward secrecy?

NOSEBETTER: I'm starting to think we're talking past each other. Let me try a different approach. What if I told you this system could generate an address file that could theoretically be decoded to say anything - your grocery list, the Constitution, or random gibberish - depending on which reference file someone uses?

TUNNELVISION: Now you're describing a completely broken system! If one ciphertext can decrypt to multiple plaintexts, you have zero cryptographic security. This violates the most basic principle of deterministic decryption. This inventor needs to take a basic cryptography course before attempting to build security systems.

NOSEBETTER: But it IS secure - just not cryptographically secure. The security comes from the fact that the addresses are meaningless without the exact reference file. It's like having coordinates to a treasure without knowing which map to use.

TUNNELVISION: "Not cryptographically secure" means not secure, period. You can't have security without cryptography in the digital age. This sounds like someone watched too many spy movies and thinks hiding codebooks is real security. Modern threats require mathematical proofs, not parlor tricks.

NOSEBETTER: What about the fact that the address file looks completely random? There's no pattern, no structure, nothing that indicates it's even an encoded message rather than just random noise.

TUNNELVISION: Random-looking output is table stakes for any encryption algorithm! That's called semantic security - your ciphertext should be indistinguishable from random. But without proper mathematical foundations, you're just creating elaborate nonsense. Where's your security proof? Your complexity analysis?
NOSEBETTER: Let me ask this differently. What if law enforcement intercepted one of these address files? What mathematical attack would they use to break it?

TUNNELVISION: Well, they'd start with frequency analysis, then move to known-plaintext attacks, maybe try some algebraic cryptanalysis... [pauses] Actually, hmm. Without knowing the mathematical transform being used, they'd probably... well, they'd need to... [longer pause] Look, that's not the point. The point is this system lacks cryptographic rigor!

NOSEBETTER: So you're saying there's no mathematical way to attack a list of random addresses without knowing which reference file was used?

TUNNELVISION: I'm saying this whole approach is backwards! You don't build security by avoiding mathematics - you build it with stronger mathematics! This person is essentially arguing that having no algorithm is better than having a proven algorithm. It's cryptographic nihilism!

NOSEBETTER: But what if the goal isn't to encrypt data, but to make it impossible to prove what data was ever there in the first place? Perfect deniability - those addresses could point to any message you want them to.

TUNNELVISION: That's... that's not how evidence works. You can't just claim your intercepted communications could be anything. Courts don't accept "maybe it's something else" as a defense. This person fundamentally misunderstands both cryptography AND law enforcement.

NOSEBETTER: Actually, legal experts suggest that's exactly how evidence works. If you can't prove what a message says, you can't prosecute based on its contents. The system creates reasonable doubt by its very nature.

TUNNELVISION: [getting agitated] Now you're moving the goalposts! First it was "secure," now it's "legally confusing." Real cryptographic systems provide mathematical guarantees, not courtroom confusion. This inventor should focus on learning proper encryption instead of trying to reinvent security through... through... address pointing!

NOSEBETTER: One final question: if this system has been proven to work, provides perfect deniability, leaves no recoverable traces, and has no mathematical vulnerabilities because it uses no mathematics - why does it matter that it's not cryptographically traditional?

TUNNELVISION: Because... because that's not how you do security! Look, I've spent twenty years studying cryptographic algorithms. You can't just ignore the entire field and claim you've found a better way. Security requires encryption, encryption requires mathematics, and mathematics requires proper academic validation. This person needs to learn how ciphering actually works!

NOSEBETTER: Even if ciphering has nothing to do with what they've built?

- - - -

== Analysis: The Great Security vs. Encryption Confusion ==

Our interview with Dr. Tunnelvision revealed a fascinating blindspot in the cybersecurity community. Throughout our discussion, the renowned expert consistently insisted that the ZOSCII system needed to follow cryptographic principles, despite the inventor's explicit claims that it doesn't use cryptography at all.

"It's like watching someone critique a bicycle for being a terrible airplane," observed MIT Professor of Logic Dr. Sarah Clearhead, who reviewed the interview transcript. "Tunnelvision keeps applying encryption standards to a system that deliberately avoids encryption entirely."

The disconnect became most apparent when Tunnelvision admitted he couldn't identify any mathematical attack vectors against ZOSCII, yet continued to dismiss it for lacking mathematical foundations. "He essentially proved the system's security by failing to break it, then criticized it for being unbreakable in an unconventional way," noted security analyst Rebecca Obvious.

When contacted for follow-up comments, Dr. Tunnelvision's office issued a statement reaffirming that "all digital security must be cryptographically based" and that "alternative approaches to data protection are inherently invalid." The statement notably didn't address how one would mathematically attack a system that contains no mathematical transformations to reverse.

The ZOSCII controversy continues to divide the security community between those who insist all protection must follow cryptographic principles and those who argue that sometimes the best way to hide something is to point somewhere else entirely.

The interview concluded with Dr. Tunnelvision scheduling himself for a remedial course in reading comprehension, though his office later clarified this was "to better understand how criminals might misinterpret proper cryptographic terminology."

Melissa NoseBetter is a senior technology correspondent covering cybersecurity and digital privacy issues. She has spent fifteen years trying to explain why pointing at things isn't the same as encrypting things, with mixed success.

- - - -

NOTE: This is a satirical interview about different approaches to security, one quite novel vs established.

- - - -

'''But this is NOT Satire!'''

Announcing: CyborgZOSCII - ZERO encryption ZERO ciphering 100% SECURE!!!

[https://zoscii.com|zoscii.com]
[https://github.com/PrimalNinja/cyborgzoscii|CyborgZOSCII on GitHub]